The Unison development team at the University of Pennsylvania is
pleased to the first public release (2.1) of its file synchronization
tool for Unix and Windows systems.  Unison allows two replicas of a
collection of files and directories to be stored on different hosts
(or different disks on the same host), modified separately, and then
brought up to date by propagating the changes in each replica to the
other.

The current release is available for immediate download from
     http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/unison
in both source and binary form.

Unison shares a number of features with tools such as configuration
management packages (CVS, PRCS, etc.) distributed filesystems (Coda, etc.)
uni-directional mirroring utilities (rsync, etc.) and other synchronizers
(Intellisync, Reconcile, etc), but differs in several significant areas:

   * Unison runs on both Windows (95, 98, NT, and 2k) and Unix (Solaris,
     Linux, etc.) systems. Moreover, Unison works across platforms, allowing
     a Windows laptop, for example, to synchronize with a Unix fileserver.
   * Unlike ``true'' distributed filesystems, Unison is a user-level
     program: it can be run without kernel modifications or superuser
     permissions on either host.
   * Unlike simple mirroring or backup utilities, Unison can deal with
     updates to both replicas of a distributed directory structure. Updates
     that do not conflict are propagated automatically. Conflicting updates
     are detected and displayed.
   * Unison works between any pair of machines connected to the internet,
     communicating over either a direct socket link or tunneling over an rsh
     or an encrypted ssh connection. It is careful with network bandwidth,
     and runs well over slow links such as PPP connections.
   * Unison has a clear and precise specification and comes with extensive
     documentation.
   * Unison is resilient to failure. It is careful to leave the replicas and
     its own private structures in a sensible state at all times, even in
     case of abnormal termination or communication failures.
   * Unison is free; complete source code is available under the GNU Public
     License.

Unison is brought to you by 
   Sylvain Gommier, 
   Trevor Jim, 
   Benjamin Pierce, and 
   Jerome Vouillon. 

Please contact unison@cis.upenn.edu or visit our home page for more
information.

